### Discussion
There are two important caveats that need to be explained in relation to this work. Firstly, science writing consists of two types of complexity: irreducible complexity, and reducible complexity. Irreducible complexity in science writing stems from the fact that science is the act of communicating abstract and elaborate techniques that interrogate nature. Written instructions for how to repeat a science experiment shouldn’t be less complex than the experiments that the instructions encode. Reducible complexity in science writing is an unintended component of complexity, stemming from difficult language, this component is added to texts by the science writers by accident. In this document we are only concerned with methods that help writers to identify reducible complexity in their writing.

It is very rare for a single scientist to be a sole author of a publication, almost always a team of scientists coauthor a publication. The data mining and NLP approach here involves querying  an authors written work and analysing the coauthored documents that are discovered in this process. Therefore writing complexity reflects not just the work of one scientist, but also the contribution of the coauthors. The writing complexity discovered by this tool reflects the written complexity of the group of scientists in the whole coauthorship network, and we assume that the written contribution of the author can often be approximated by averaging over multiple written documents, although we acknowledge that this approximation may sometimes have less validity.
